The founders of the Internet had some great ideas that have contributed to its success.
One key idea allowed computers to send arbitrarily large amounts of data by breaking the data up into packets.
A packet is a small amount of data with a specific format (the actual size can range from 7 to 65,542 bytes).
Smaller packets are less prone to error but then have to be reassembled by the recipient’s computer.
The postal service could do the same thing.
For example, if Cyndy wants to mail a book to Biff, she could tear the book apart and mail each page individually.
Biff could use the page numbers as a guide to reconstruct the book.
Because digital data can always be represented as bits, they can always be separated into packets and reassembled.
Packets are used to send messages like email and texts, but they are also for sending web pages, images, music, or any other kind of data.
A router is a piece of equipment that passes data packets between networks.
The image below is what your home network may look like.
If you have FIOS the router and cable modem are the same box.
If you have Optimum (or another cable provider, the router and cable modem are typically separate devices).
Delegation and autonomy allow systems to grow.
Both the IP and domain name systems are hierarchical and delegate autonomous authority to lower levels in the hierarchy.
This is a strategy for letting the system scale.
How well a system scales is how well it works as it grows.
These two systems work in parallel with each other and have worked well even as the Internet has grown so quickly.
Delegation of authority lets the Internet scale without becoming bogged down because domain owners can each create and keep track of their own subdomains.
To understand this important concept about how computing systems can grow, think about an imaginary school that can build new corridors and rooms as is enrolls more students and hires teachers.
However, as the school grows, it maintains only one main office.
The school can grow by delegating certain responsibilities to teachers or to students.
Some responsibilities are retained by the main office.
